#  Glossary

[anisotropic model](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A variogram model in which the Ranges are different for each of the three variogramaxes.

[attributes](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

User defined, numeric or alphanumeric fields (also known as columns), typically added to geological tables, drillholes, sample points, strings and wireframes. These are added in order to aid in the geological modeling and grade estimation process and enhance presentation and reporting output. Examples include ZONE (a numeric mineralization zone number) and LEVEL (a numeric mining level identifier).

[evaluation](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

Calculating the summary tonnes and grade of a volume, typically defined by outlines (singles or pairs), wireframe volumes or the entire block model. Outlines and wireframes can also be evaluated against drillholes.

[experimental variogram](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A table or plot of (semi)variance vs distance. It describes how the spatial continuity of a variable (e.g. Au grade) varies with distance and direction. This (semi)variance is calculated for different sample spacings (lags). Output file generated by VGRAM.

[footwall](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The rock on the underside of a vein or ore body; the floor of a drive.

[hangingwall](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The rock on the upper side of a vein or ore body; the roof of a drive.

[isotropic model](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A variogram model in which the Ranges are the same for each of the three variogram axes.

[level](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The horizontal openings on a working horizon in a mine; these levels are typically accessed from a shaft and/or decline system. Levels are generally established at regular intervals, 10s of metres apart.

[mineralization domain control](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

Estimation of grades into block model cells within a particular zone using only the corresponding zone samples. This requires a numeric or alphanumeric zone field(s) to be present in both the sample and block model data.

[model variogram](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A variogram model is a 'best fit' curve/surface, fitted to an experimental variogram data set. In Studio 3, the available models include Spherical, Power, Exponential, Gaussian andDe Wijsian. The model is defined by a function which uses various parameters e.g. nugget, spatial variance, range, power. These parameters vary according to the type of model selected. Output file generated by VARFIT.

[nugget (co)](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The sum of inherent geological variability at the micro scale, and if not removed, then it includes the measurement, sampling and assaying errors. The value on a Variogram model plot where the variogram intersects the Y axis.

[nugget variance](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The sum of inherent geological variability at the micro scale, and if not removed,then it includes the measurement, sampling and assaying errors. The value on a Variogrammodel plot where the variogram intersects the Y axis.

[outline](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

In Studio 3, a closed (or open) coplanar perimeter defining the limits of a geological boundary, drive or stope as viewed in the reference plane. The reference plane is typically horizontal or vertical, but can also be inclined.

[perimeter](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

In Studio 3, a closed (or open) coplanar perimeter defining the limits of a geological boundary, drive or stope as viewed in the reference plane. The reference plane is typically horizontal or vertical, but can also be inclined.

[QQ plot](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A plot of the quantiles (of a particular grade field) of one data set (e.g. block model cells) against the quantiles of another data set (e.g. composited drillholes), where a quantile is defined as the fraction (or percent) of points below the given value.

[quantile-quantile plot](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A plot of the quantiles (of a particular grade field) of one data set (e.g. blockmodel cells) against the quantiles of another data set (e.g. composited drillholes),where a quantile is defined as the fraction (or percent) of points below the givenvalue.

[range](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The distance (lag) at which a variogram model reaches the sill

[sample file](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

Sample files can be either drillholes or points

[sample variogram](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A table or plot of (semi)variance vs distance. It describes how the spatial continuity of a variable (e.g. Au grade) varies with distance and direction. This (semi)variance is calculated for different sample spacings (lags). Output file generated by VGRAM.

[sill](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The maximum variance attained by the variogram model

[spatial variance (C)](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

Spatial Variance = Sill - Nugget i.e. the difference between the sill and the nugget variances.

[spherical model](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The Spherical variogram model (commonly used) is defined by a function which uses the parameters: Nugget, Range(s) and Spatial variance(s).

[string](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

In Studio 3, a closed (or open) coplanar perimeter defining the limits of a geological boundary, drive or stope as viewed in the reference plane. The reference plane is typically horizontal or vertical, but can also be inclined.

[total variance](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The maximum variance attained by the variogram model

[variance](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The maximum variance attained by the variogram model

[variogram range](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

The distance (lag) at which a variogram model reaches the sill

[wireframe ellipse](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A 3 dimensional wireframe volume representing a sample search ellipsoid used in grade estimation. The size of the wireframe volume is defined by the search volume's three axes' lengths and rotation angles. Generated using ELLIPSE.

[wireframe ellipsoid](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

A 3 dimensional wireframe volume representing a sample search ellipsoid used in gradeestimation. The size of the wireframe volume is defined by the search volume's threeaxes' lengths and rotation angles. Generated using ELLIPSE.

[zonal control](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

Estimation of grades into block model cells within a particular zone using only the corresponding zone samples. This requires a numeric or alphanumeric zone field(s) to be present in both the sample and block model data.

[zone attribute](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

Attribute field (numeric or alphanumeric), containing different zone values, whichis present within both the block model and the associated sample file and which isused for Zonal Control purposes. Up to two zone fields may be used.

[zone field](<javascript:void\(0\);>)

Attribute field (numeric or alphanumeric), containing different zone values, which is present within both the block model and the associated sample file and which is used for Zonal Control purposes. Up to two zone fields may be used.