# Implicit Modelling Metadata

All implicit modelling commands generate or utilize input data. Data generated by an implicit modelling command is automatically appended with a range of fields containing metadata. 

This metadata is used to ensure the 'heritage' of the modelled data is known, and it can be interpreted by other application functions to allow settings to be configured automatically, based on previous parameters.

### _VSNAPC_P & VSNAPC_Q

### -CSNAPC_P & CSNAPC_Q

The columns _**VSNAPC** _P and _**VSNAPC** _Q are used for colouring the HW/FW vertices when the [Vein Modelling](<Create_Vein_Surfaces_Overview.md>) task is active.

Similarly _**CSNAPC** _P and _**CSNAPC** _Q are used for colouring the contact vertices when you use the [Create Contact Surface](<../STUDIO_RM/Surface_From_Samples.md>) task.

**Note** : In both cases, the data values aren't used in implicit modelling calculations.

### _FLAG_VS... & _FLAG_CS...

### _PSNAP_CT... & _QSNAP_CT...

### _PSNAP_GS... & _QSNAP_GS...

_**FLAG_VS** and _**FLAG_CS** attributes are generated by the [Vein Modelling](<Create_Vein_Surfaces_Overview.md>) task and are appended with the selected column name, for example; __FLAG_VS_GEOLOGY_. These values flag which contacts to ignore in the implicit modelling calculation and are set interactively using the [Edit Samples](<Create_Vein_Surfaces_6_Reversal.md>) controls.

The _**PSNAP_CT** and _**QSNAP_CT** attributes, also appended with the selected column name are created by the [Create Categorical Surfaces](<../STUDIO_RM/Implicit_Surface_From_Drillholes_Categorical.md>) task, for the same reason.

_**PSNAP_GS** and _**QSNAP_GS** , also with a column name suffix are used both for vertex colouring and for flagging which contacts to ignore during the **Snap to Contacts** post-processing routine of the [Create Grade Shells](<../STUDIO_RM/Implicit_Surface_From_Drillholes_Continuous.md>) task.

**Tip** : Use this data to reproduce HW/FW points for future drillhole interpretations using **[GETSAMP](<../Process_Help_XML/getsamp.md>)**.

### _SOURCECOMMAND & _USED_BY

The _**SOURCECOMMAND** attribute denotes the tool used previously to create the data. It one of the following valid values:

  * **FaultModelling** \- Fault traces (strings) were generated using the [Model Faults](<../STUDIO_RM/ModelFaults.md>) task.

  * **VeinFromSamples** \- The data was created using the [Vein Modelling](<Create_Vein_Surfaces_Overview.md>) task. Boundary strings, additional points and fault wireframes can all contain this metadata.

  * **ContactSurface** \- Data was generated using the [Create Contact Surface](<../STUDIO_RM/Surface_From_Samples.md>) task. Boundary strings, additional points and fault wireframes can include this metadata.

  * **GradeShell** \- Grade shell data generated by the [Create Grade Shells](<../STUDIO_RM/Implicit_Surface_From_Drillholes_Continuous.md>) task. Ellipsoid data is updated.

  * **Categorical** \- Data was generated using the Ellipsoid data and additional points are updated.

When data is used by a command to generate its output, for example, fault traces used to model faults or fault wireframes used to create fault blocks in the Create Vein Surfaces command, a value is automatically added to a _**USED_BY** attribute. Again, this is automatically appended to the data objects used within the implicit modelling function. The following codes are used:

  * **1** \- The data has been used by the [**Create Vein Surfaces**](<Create_Vein_Surfaces_Overview.md>) tool most recently. 

  * **2** \- The data has been used by the [Create Contact Surface](<../STUDIO_RM/Surface_From_Samples.md>) tool.

  * **4** \- The data has been used by the [Create Grade Shells](<../STUDIO_RM/Implicit_Surface_From_Drillholes_Continuous.md>) tool.

  * **8** \- The data has been used by the [Create Categorical Surfaces](<../STUDIO_RM/Implicit_Surface_From_Drillholes_Categorical.md>) tool.

  * **16** \- The data has been used by the [Model Faults](<../STUDIO_RM/ModelFaults.md>) tool.