# Project Settings: Desurvey Settings

To access this screen:

  * On the [Project Settings](<ProjectSettings.md>) screen, select the Desurvey Settings tab.

Control how drillhole table data (dynamic drillholes) is interpreted when desurveying to create static drillholes. 

The settings applied here have no effect on existing static drillhole tables. 

To define desurvey settings for your project:

  1. Choose your **Desurvey Method**. 
     * **Straight Line Segments** utilize a 'straight-line' method, meaning the hole direction at each survey point is projected to the depth of the next survey point.
     * **Radius of Curvature** between any two orientations, for a given (and known) sample length, there is exactly one spherical arc. The spherical arc is tangential to the orientation at each survey point and curvature along the entire hole is guaranteed to be continuous, with no sharp angles as in the straight-line method.

For more information on types of drillhole data, see [Desurvey Methods](<Drillhole%20Representation%20in%20Studio.md>).

  2. Define your options for **Desurvey Control** :

     * Include direction from collars table as well as from surveys table
       * If **checked** , use the collar survey data (if available) to determine the drillhole orientation. This can be used if the collars table contains collar surveys (azimuth and Inclination values at a depth of 0) which are i) _not_ included in the surveys table, or ii) when there is no survey table available.
       * If **unchecked** , any survey data in the collars table is ignored for the purposes of desurveying.
     * Subdivide samples to smooth trace

       * If **checked** , survey table data is decimated to produce a string with more segments, and potentially a 'smoother' visual result.

       * If **unchecked** , no subdivision of traces occurs during desurveying.

     * Drillhole trace to honour sample centers as generated by the DESURV or HOLES3D processes

       * If **checked** , an attempt is made to align the centre of sample data with on-screen drillhole data. These sample centres are calculated using **[DESURV](<../Process_Help_XML/desurv.md>)** or **[HOLES3D](<../Process_Help_XML/holes3d.md>)** processes.

       * If **unchecked** , sample centres are positioned as found in the imported geological database.

Related topics and activities

  * [Project Settings](<ProjectSettings.md>)

  * [Desurvey Methods](<Drillhole%20Representation%20in%20Studio.md>)

  * [DESURV](<../Process_Help_XML/desurv.md>)

  * [HOLES3D](<../Process_Help_XML/holes3d.md>)