# Project Settings: Points and Strings

To access this dialog:

  * On the [Project Settings](<ProjectSettings.md>) screen, select the Points and Strings tab.

  * **Digitize** ribbon **> > Tools >> Outlines >> Outline Settings**.

Configure how string, string outline and string data selection processes are managed.

To configure how string tools behave by default:

  1. Display the **Points and Strings** settings screen.

  2. Choose if **Strings used for combining are kept** when using the **[combine-strings](<../command_help/combine-strings.md>)** or [combine-strings-attrib](<../command_help/combine-strings-attrib.md>) commands.

**Note** : you can also toggle the preservation of combination string using the **[keep-combined-switch](<../command_help/keep-combined-switch.md>)** command.

     * If **checked** , strings used in combining are retained.

     * If **unchecked** , strings used for combining are automatically erased.

  3. Toggle on or off whether **Strings used for traces are kept**. 

     1. If **checked** , strings which were selected to make up a string are retained during string combination. 

     2. If **unchecked** , strings used for combining are erased when the trace is ended.

  4. Choose whether to **Use model slope field for projection** :

     * If **checked** , the face angle for string projection at a point will be derived from the value in the cell model SLOPE field. This value will take preference over rosettes and the default value. If the value is absent it will be ignored. 

**Note** : you can't enable this setting if there is no cell model file or if the cell model file contains no SLOPE field. 

     * If **unchecked** , the slope field is not used during string projection.

  5. Choose whether or not to **Use rosettes for projection** :

     * If **checked** , the face angle for string projection at a point will be derived from rosettes. The value will take preference over the default face angle but has a lesser priority than the cell model SLOPE field. 

     * If **unchecked** , rosettes do not influence string projection.

  6. Choose how a projected string is limited by its intersection with a wireframe, using the **Intersect wireframe for projection** toggle:

     * If **checked** , string projection will stop when it intersects a wireframe. 

     * If **unchecked** , loaded wireframes are ignored during string projection.

  7. Choose if coincident points are moved together during data editing, using the **Edit coincident points** switch.

     1. If **checked** , coincident points are always moved together.

     2. If **unchecked** , points are moved independently, even if they are coincident.

To control how string outlines are generated:

During string outline generation, you can choose to either:

  * Generate all possible outlinesif selected, then during use of the [generate-outlines](<../command_help/generate-outlines.md>) command, each new outline will only be generated by cursor selection, inside the required outline shape. 

  * Select new outlines individually if selected, [generate-outlines](<../command_help/generate-outlines.md>) can be used with each new outline will only be generated by cursor selection, inside the required outline shape.

To control point and vertex movement:

Vertices and point data can be moved in either of the following ways:

  * **Move relative to plane** if selected, points are moved relative to the currently active section plane, unless snapping is used (in which case points can be positioned off-section.
  * Move relative to screenif selected, points are moved relative to the current view plane.

To control how data is selected in a 3D window using box selection:

The following mutually-exclusive options control how data is picked in a 3D wndow:

**Note** : regardless of the method chosen, **CTRL** held down during selection leaves any items outside of the selection box selected if they were previously. Any previously selected items in the box reverse their selection state.

  * Select string when all points in boxonly strings that lie completely within the bounding box of the selection area are selected ([box-all-points-inside-switch](<../command_help/box-all-points-inside-switch.md>)).

  * Select string when crosses boxstrings are selected if the selection box contains a part of the string(s) ([box-any-points-inside-switch](<../command_help/box-any-points-inside-switch.md>)).

  * Drag box left to right to include crossing strings include any crossing strings when selection is made left to right.

  * Drag box right to left to include crossing stringstoggle to include any crossing strings when selection is made right to left.

Related topics and activities

  * [Project Settings](<ProjectSettings.md>)

  * [Selecting 3D Data Interactively](<Selecting3DDataInteractively.md>)

  * [combine-strings](<../command_help/combine-strings.md>)

  * [keep-combined-switch](<../command_help/keep-combined-switch.md>)

  * [generate-outlines](<../command_help/generate-outlines.md>)

  * [box-all-points-inside-switch](<../command_help/box-all-points-inside-switch.md>)

  * [box-any-points-inside-switch](<../command_help/box-any-points-inside-switch.md>)