# BACKTR Process

To access this process:

  * **Estimate** ribbon **> > Validate >> Geostatistical Processes >> Transform - From Normal**.
  * **BACKTR** is accessed automatically using the **[Advanced Estimation](<../STUDIO_RM/Multivariate_Introduction.md>)** wizard.
  * View the **[Find Command](<../COMMON/findcommand.md>)** screen, select **BACKTR** and click **Run**.
  * Enter "BACKTR" into the [Command Line](<../COMMON/Command_Toolbar.md>) and press <ENTER>.

See this process in the [Command Table](<../command_help/commandtable_B.md#BACKTR>).

**Note** : This is a _superprocess_ and running it may have an effect on other Datamine files in the project.

## Process Overview

The process back-transforms data from a normal distribution. 

For details of the method refer to:

GSLIB. Geostatistical Software Library and User's Guide by Clayton V.Deutsch and Andre G.Journel, published by Oxford University Press, Second Edition, 1998. ISBN 0-19-510015-8.

There are some differences between Datamine and GSLIB conventions. However, unless otherwise stated, Datamine conventions are used. Where required these are converted to GSLIB conventions by the process. Please see the copyright notice at the bottom of this article.

The SGSIM process includes an option that carries out a normal transformation prior to the simulation. However if the option is not used then the simulated values will be normally distributed, and **BACKTR** will be required to back transform them..

## Program Limits

BACKTR is limited to 500000 samples in the input (IN) file.

The following additional limitations currently apply to the folder name of the project:

  * The full path name of the project folder must not include spaces, for example c:\database\consim\my project1 is not allowed.

## System Files

The following log files are generated by the BACKTR process:

_bktlog.txt |  Log file. Only useful if there is a problem.  
---|---  
_bkt_*.txt |  Temporary system files. These will be deleted if the process terminates cleanly.   
_sp*.dm |  Temporary Datamine files. These will be deleted if the process terminates cleanly.  
  
All files matching the template _bkt_*.txt and _sp*.dm will be deleted as the process terminates. Therefore you should not use any of these file names.

## Input Files

Name| Description| I/O Status| Required| Type  
---|---|---|---|---  
IN1| Input data file. This must include the normally distributed field NORMVAL that is to be back transformed.| Input| Yes| Table  
REFDIST| Input file containing the transformation lookup table. The file must include the field ORIGREF , containing the original data values, and the field NORMREF defining the corresponding normal score values.| Input| Yes| Table  
  
## Output Files

Name| I/O Status| Required| Type| Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
OUT| Output| Yes| Block Model| Output file containing the back transformed values. This contains the same data as the IN file, but with the added back transformed data field BACKVAL .  
  
## Fields

Name| Description| Source| Required| Type| Default  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
NORMVAL| Field in the input data file IN defining the normal score values to be back transformed.| IN| Yes| Numeric| Undefined  
ORIGREF| Field in the input REFDIST file defining the original data values.| REFDIST| Yes| Numeric| Undefined  
NORMREF| Field in the input REFDIST file defining the normal score values.| REFDIST| Yes| Numeric| Undefined  
BACKVAL| Field to be created in the output file OUT for the back transformed data values. If not specified then the field BACKVAL will be created,| Undefined| No| Numeric| BACKVAL  
  
## Parameters

Name| Description| Required| Default| Range| Values  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
MINNORM| Minimum value of NORMVAL field in IN file to be used for back transformation.| No| -4| Undefined| Undefined  
MAXNORM| Maximum value of NORMVAL field in IN file to be used for back transformation.| No| 4| Undefined| Undefined  
MINBACK| Minimum value of BACKVAL field to be created in OUT file.| No| 0| Undefined| Undefined  
MAXBACK| Maximum value of BACKVAL field to be created in OUT file.| No| +| Undefined| Undefined  
LOTAIL| Back-transformation method in the lower tail of the distribution to a minimum grade of MINBACK .| **Option**| **Description**  
---|---  
**1,**|  Linear interpolation.  
**2,**|  Power model interpolation. The power used is defined by LOPAR .  
No| 1| 1,2| 1,2  
LOPAR| Power parameter used in back-transformation of grades in the lower tail of the distribution to a minimum of MINBACK . LOTAIL must be set to 2.| No| 1| 0,+| Undefined  
UPTAIL| Back-transformation method in the upper tail of the distribution to a maximum grade of MAXGRADE .| **Option**| **Description**  
---|---  
**1,**|  Linear interpolation.  
**2,**|  Power model interpolation. The power used is defined by UPPAR .  
**4,**|  Hyperbolic model extrapolation using power parameter defined by UPPAR .  
No| 1| 1,4| 1,2,4  
UPPAR| Power parameter used in back-transformation of grades in the upper tail of the distribution to a maximum of MAXGRADE . UPTAIL must be set to 2 or 4.| No| 1| 0,+| Undefined  
  
## Example
    
    
    !BACKTR &IN(nscore1),&REFDIST(nsctran1),&OUT(backtr1),*NORMVAL(NSCORE),             *ORIGREF(V),*NORMREF(TRANDATA),*BACKVAL(V1),@MINNORM=-4.0,  
  
---  
      
    
                 @MAXNORM=4.0,@MINBACK=0.0,@MAXBACK=2000.0,@LOTAIL=1.0,  
      
    
                 @LOPAR=1.0,@UPTAIL=1.0,@UPPAR=1.0   
  
## Copyright

The command **BACKTR** is based on the GSLIB program **BACKTR**.

Copyright (C) 1996, The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford  
Junior University. All rights reserved.   
  
The programs in GSLIB are distributed in the hope that they will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY. No author or distributor accepts responsibility to anyone for the consequences of using them or for whether they serve any particular purpose or work at all, unless he   
says so in writing. Everyone is granted permission to copy, modify and redistribute the programs in GSLIB, but only under the condition that this notice and the above copyright notice remain intact.