# INPDDF Process  
  
To access this process:

  * **Data** ribbon **> > Data Tools >> Text Utilities >> Input from Datamine Text File**.

  * Enter "INPDDF " into the [Command Line](<../COMMON/Command_Toolbar.md>) and press <ENTER>.
  * Display the **[Find Command](<../COMMON/findcommand.md>)** screen, locate **INPDDF** and click **Run**.

See this process in the [Command Table](<../command_help/COMMAND%20TABLE_I.md#INPDDF>).

## Process Overview

Input a complete file, including its Data Definition, in a standard format (as generated by the [OUTPUT](<output.md>) process) from a character external system file.

The format of the file read by **INPDDF** is as follows:

Data Definition

Contents  |  Format   
---|---  
<file name> |  20A4 (not used)   
<file description> |  20A4   
<Total fields> |  <Explicit fields> 2I8 (words)  
  
For the total number of fields above, one record per field (or per 4 characters for alphanumeric fields):-  

<Field name> |  N/A <length>  
---|---  
<ISWD pointer> <Char default> |  2A4,1X,A1,2I4,  
<numeric default> |  4X,A4,E14.6  
  
The character default is only set for alphanumeric fields; the numeric is only set for numeric fields. The ISWD pointer is absent (zero) for implicit fields, or the sequential word number in the file for explicit fields.

### Data Records

Data records have entries for explicit fields only; all numeric fields will be output in either F or E format, depending on magnitude. Each number will be 12 characters long (e.g. F12.0). All alphanumeric fields will be read in multiples of A4, without spaces, except where an alphanumeric field follows a numeric field, in which case there will be 4 blanks left before the start of the alphanumeric field.  
  
Errors in the DD format will cause the process to be abandoned with an error message; errors in the data format will cause each record in error to be displayed with an error message, and the record ignored.  
  
The maximum record width that may be handled is 240 characters.  
  
The characters !! in positions 1 and 2 are used internally to terminate the data; therefore no record should start with !!.  
  
The following messages are output to the display when using INPDDF with a catalogue file input:
    
    
    >>> OPERATING ON A CATALOGUE FILE INPUT <<<  
      
    >>> COPYING IN FILE file1  
    >>> 99999999 RECORDS IN FILE file 1  
    >>> COPYING IN FILE file2  
    >>> 99999999 RECORDS IN FILE file 2

## Output Files

Name |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
OUT |  Output |  Yes |  Table |  Database file to be created. If OUT is a catalogue file, then all files in the catalogue will be input.  
  
## Parameters

Name |  Description |  Required |  Default |  Range |  Values  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
PRINT |  >=1 to display each record (0). |  No |  0 |  0,1 |  0,1  
  
## Example
    
    
    !INPDDF &OUT(NEWFILE)SYSFILE>alphdata.dat  
  
---  
  
## Error and Warning Messages

Message |  Description  
---|---  
>>> SYSTEM FILE DOES NOT EXIST <<< |  The named file does not exist. Fatal; the process is exited.  
>>> ERR 1 <<< ( fileno) IN INDD  
>>> ILLEGAL DD IN FILE <<< |  The Data Definition was illegal and could not be interpreted. Fatal; the process is exited.  
>>> FORMAT STATEMENT TOO LONG <<<  
(listing of format)  
>>> ERR 130 <<< ( n) IN DEFFMT  
>>> ILLEGAL FILE FORMAT <<< |  The format statement, constructed from the Data Definition, occupied more than 80 characters (including brackets). Fatal; the process is exited.  
>>> FORMAT CONVERSION ERROR <<<  
(listing of record)  
>>> ERR 80 <<< ( 0) IN FMTDCW |  The given record did not match the format entered. Warning; the record is ignored.  
  
Related topics and activities

  * [ADDDD Process](<adddd.md>)

  * [INPFIL Process](<inpfil.md>)

  * [INPFML Process](<inpfml.md>)

  * [INPUTC Process](<inputc.md>)

  * [INPUTD Process](<inputd.md>)

  * [INPUTW Process](<inputw.md>)

  * [INTEXT Process](<intext.md>)

  * [OUTPUT Process](<output.md>)