# NSCORE Process  
  
To access this process:

  * **Estimate** ribbon **> > Validate >> Geostatistical Processes >> Transform - To Normal**.

  * Enter "NSCORE" into the [Command Line](<../COMMON/Command_Toolbar.md>) and press ENTER.
  * Display the **[Find Command](<../COMMON/findcommand.md>)** screen, locate **NSCORE** and click **Run**.

See this process in the [Command Table](<../command_help/COMMAND%20TABLE_N.md#NSCORE>).

## Process Overview

**Note** : This is a _superprocess_ and running it may have an effect on other Datamine files in the project.

Transform a set of data to a normal distribution. 

Note: This process is based on the GSLIB code for normal score transformation (nscore). See the footnotes for accreditation and source.

If a **REFDIST** file is not specified, then **NSCORE** transforms the data to a normal distribution using the standard Gaussian cumulative density function method. If a **REFDIST** file is specified then **NSCORE** transforms the data to a distribution defined by **REFDIST**.

The SGSIM process includes an option that carries out a normal transformation prior to the simulation. However it is useful to have the separate process **NSCORE** to do just the transformation, because the input variogram model for SGSIM should be calculated from the normal data.

### Program Limits

**Maximum number of samples** in input IN file 500000

The following limitations currently apply to the **folder name of the project** :

  * A maximum of 48 characters in the full path name of the project folder, for example c:\database\consim\project1 must not exceed 80 characters.

  * The full path name of the project folder must not include spaces, for example c:\database\consim\my project1 is not allowed.

### System Files

The following temporary and system files are generated by the NSCORE process. In typical use, these are unimportant and cleared up automatically.

  * _nsclog.txt Log file. Only useful if there is a problem.

  * _nsc_*.txt Temporary system files. These will be deleted if the process terminates cleanly. 

  * _sp*.dm Temporary Datamine files. These will be deleted if the process terminates cleanly.

All files matching the template _nsc_*.txt and _sp*.dm will be deleted as the process terminates. Therefore you should not use any of these file names.

## Input Files

Name |  Description |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type  
---|---|---|---|---  
IN |  Input sample data file. This must include the grade field **GRADE** and may also include the declustering weight field **DCWGT** . |  Input |  Yes |  Table  
REFDIST |  Optional input reference distribution to define required transformation. The file must include the field **REFGRADE** , to define the distribution, and may also include the field **REFWGT** to define declustering weights. |  Input |  No |  Table  
  
## Output Files

Name |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
OUT |  Output |  Yes |  Block Model |  Output file containing transformed points. This contains the same data as the IN file, but with the added transformed data field **NSCORE**.  
TRANDIST |  Output |  No |  Table |  Output file for the transformation table. This will contain the grade field **GRADE** from the IN sample file and the field **TRANDATA** giving the transformed value. The file will be sorted by **GRADE** .  
STAT_TBL |  Output |  No |  Table |  Output statistics table. This provides statistics for both the input, untransformed, sample data, as well as the output, transformed, values.  
  
## Fields

Name |  Description |  Source |  Required |  Type |  Default  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
GRADE |  Field in the input sample file **IN** defining the grade to be transformed. |  IN |  Yes |  Numeric |  Undefined  
DCWGT |  Optional declustering weights field in the **IN** file. |  IN |  No |  Numeric |  Undefined  
REFGRADE |  Reference grade field, defining the reference distribution in the **REFDIST** file. |  REFDIST |  No |  Numeric |  Undefined  
REFWGT |  Optional reference weight field, defining declustering weights in the **REFDIST** file. |  REFDIST |  No |  Numeric |  Undefined  
  
## Parameters

Name |  Description |  Required |  Default |  Range |  Values  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
MINGRADE |  Minimum **GRADE** value input from the IN sample file. |  No |  0 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
MAXGRADE |  Maximum **GRADE** value input from the **IN** sample file. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
  
## Example
    
    
    !NSCORE &IN(dcisaacs),&OUT(nscore1),&TRANDIST(nsctran1),  
  
---  
      
    
    *GRADE(V), @MINGRADE=0.0,@MAXGRADE=1700.0  
  
The command NSCORE is based on the GSLIB program NSCORE. 

Copyright (C) 1996, The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University. All rights reserved. 

The programs in GSLIB are distributed in the hope that they will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY. No author or distributor accepts responsibility to anyone for the consequences of using them or for whether they serve any particular purpose or work at all, unless he says so in writing. Everyone is granted permission to copy, modify and redistribute the programs in GSLIB, but only under the condition that this notice and the above copyright notice remain intact.