# PLOTHI Process  
  
Note: This legacy plotting process is no longer supported or developed. It is included here for legacy macro support only. For interactive plot creation and editing functions, with template and automation support, consider the [Plots](<../COMMON/Window_PLOTS_Overview.md>) window tools.

To access this process:

  * Enter "PLOTHI" into the [Command Line](<../COMMON/Command_Toolbar.md>) and press ENTER.
  * Display the **[Find Command](<../COMMON/findcommand.md>)** screen, locate **PLOTHI** and click **Run**.

See this process in the [Command Table](<../command_help/COMMAND%20TABLE_P.md#PLOTHI>).

## Process Overview

Generate a bar chart or histogram plot file.

The input file must contain three explicit fields describing the start of each bin (* **X1**), the end of each bin (* **X2**) and the value or frequency variable (* **Y**).

If the **[HISTOG](<histog.md>)** process was used to generate the input file, then these fields are called **LOWER** , **UPPER** and **FREQENCY** respectively. The plot size parameters @**XMIN** , @**XMAX** are normally set to the limits of the histogram bins used in **HISTOG**. These were given by the parameters @**MINIMUM** and @**MINIMUM** \+ @**BINSIZE** * @**NUMBINS**. The @**YMIN** and @**YMAX** parameters are usually set to zero and greater than the maximum frequency in any bin. All the required values may be determined by inspection of the file output by **HISTOG**.

## Input Files

Name |  Description |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type  
---|---|---|---|---  
IN |  Input data file. |  Input |  Yes |  Undefined  
PROTO |  Plot prototype file. Must contain the fields **X, Y, S1, S2** and **CODE** (numeric, explicit) and **XMIN, XMAX, YMIN, YMAX, XSCALE, YSCALE** (numeric, implicit). |  Input |  Yes |  Plot Prototype  
  
## Output Files

Name |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
PLOT |  Output |  Yes |  Plot |  Output plot file.  
  
## Fields

Name |  Description |  Source |  Required |  Type |  Default  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
X1 |  Field marking bin start (**LOWER** if file generated by **HISTOG**). |  IN |  Yes |  Numeric |  Undefined  
X2 |  Field marking bin end (**UPPER** if file generated by **HISTOG**). |  IN |  Yes |  Numeric |  Undefined  
Y |  Field to be plotted in Y (**FREQENCY** if file generated by **HISTOG**). |  IN |  Yes |  Numeric |  Undefined  
  
## Parameters

Name |  Description |  Required |  Default |  Range |  Values  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  Colour [as 'pen' number] for plot (1). |  No |  1 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
APPEND |  Plot append flag. If set to 1 then the new plot will be appended to the **PLOT** file, if it exists and is a valid plot file (0). |  No |  0 |  0,1 |  0,1  
XMIN |  Minimum value of X for plot. None of **XMIN, XMAX, YMIN, YMAX, XSCALE, YSCALE** need be set if this information is already in the prototype. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
XMAX |  Maximum value of X for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YMIN |  Minimum value of Y for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YMAX |  Maximum value of Y for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
XSCALE |  X scale in user data units per millimetre. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YSCALE |  Y scale in user data units per millimetre. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
  
## Example
    
    
    !PLOTHI     &IN(HISTFILE),&PROTO(PLOTPROT),&PLOT(FEHSPLOT),   
  
---  
      
    
    @XMIN=30,@XMAX=80,@YMIN=0,@YMAX=150,*X1(LOWER),   
      
    
    *X2(UPPER),*Y(FREQENCY)  
  
## Error and Warning Messages

Message |  Description  
---|---  
>>> ERR 411 <<< ( 0) IN TRANDP |  The scale has been defined or calculated as zero. Fatal; the process is exited.  
>>> CANNOT APPEND TO NON-EXISTENT OUTPUT FILE. >>> A NEW OUTPUT FILE WILL BE CREATED |  The @**APPEND** parameter has been set to 1, but the specified plot file does not exist. A new file will be created to contain the new plot being produced.  
>>> ERROR - CANNOT APPEND TO PLOT FILE AS IT DOES >>> NOT CONTAIN ALL THE REQUIRED FIELDS. >>> THE PLOT FILE WILL BE OVERWRITTEN. |  The @**APPEND** parameter has been set to 1, the specified plot file exists but is invalid. The existing plot file will be overwritten by the new plot being produced.  
>>> FATAL ERROR, BAD SCALE/RANGE COMBINATION(S) <<< >>> XMIN, XMAX = nnnnnnnnnn.nn nnnnnnnnn.nn >>> YMIN, YMAX = nnnnnnnnnn.nn nnnnnnnnn.nn >>> XSCALE, YSCALE = nnnnnnnnnn.nn nnnnnnnnn.nn |  Either insufficient scale information had been entered (at least two of **XMIN, XMAX, XSCALE** or Y equivalents must be entered either from the prototype of from parameters) or the combination given of **XMIN, XMAX** , and **XSCALE** (or their Y equivalents) was impossible. Often caused by entering a null plot prototype and no parameters. Fatal; the process is exited.