# PLOTFT Process  
  
Note: This legacy plotting process is no longer supported or developed. It is included here for legacy macro support only. For interactive plot creation and editing functions, with template and automation support, consider the [Plots](<../COMMON/Window_PLOTS_Overview.md>) window tools.

To access this process:

  * Enter "PLOTFT" into the [Command Line](<../COMMON/Command_Toolbar.md>) and press ENTER.
  * Display the **[Find Command](<../COMMON/findcommand.md>)** screen, locate **PLOTFT** and click **Run**.

See this process in the [Command Table](<../command_help/COMMAND%20TABLE_P.md#PLOTFT>).

## Process Overview

Generates a frame plot, with linear, log and probability options for each axis. The plot consists of a choice of frames, grid or tick marks, with annotation and user-defined titles on each axis.

This is a general process, which may be used to add a frame and axes to any plot. The usual method of operation is to generate a frame plot when the user is satisfied with the plot of the data to which the frame is to be added. The components are:

##### Frame

  1. An inner box around the data area (the X and Y axes).

  2. An optional outer box around the data area at a spacing from the inner box of half the @**CHARSIZE** parameter (values of the @IGRIDX parameter from 0 to 4 inclusive).

  3. An optional box around the full plot area (negative values of the @**IGRIDX** parameter).

The data and plot area sizes are taken from the prototype, or defined to be the screen size if the null plot prototype _plotprot_ is used.

##### Numbering

Annotation at each tick mark or each grid mark.

##### Tick Marks

Out: Tickmarks outwards from the inner box around the data area.

In: Tickmarks inwards from the inner box around the data area.

##### Grid

A full grid of intersecting lines in place of the tick marks. In addition, up to 80 characters of label are permitted on each axis. These are prompted for. The labels start from the origin (bottom left-hand corner of the data area), so that spaces should be inserted at the start of the label to space the text along the axes. Tickmarks and grids start from the **XMIN, YMIN** values. If a number of plots are to be generated with the same scales and axes, then it is only necessary to generate a single frame using **PLOTFT**. This can then be joined to any data plot file required by using the [APPEND](<append.md>) process.

Also note:

  * Probability data to be plotted with the **PLOTFT** output plot file as plot prototype is generated by process **RANK**. The PHI field, generated by the **RANK** , process contains the standard normal deviate values (alternatively identified as Z in many statistical texts) normally in the range -4.0 to +4.0. Hence appropriate minimum and maximum values for the probability scale axis should be supplied to **PLOTFT** , based on the range of the PHI field data.

  * For log scale plotting, a logarithmic transformation of data values can be performed using process [EXTRA](<extra.md>). The actual minimum and maximum of the log values will be required for defining the axis limits in process **PLOTFT**. A four cycle plot will be produced from a minimum of -1 and a maximum of 3.0. All logarithms are assumed to be computed for base 10.

## Input Files

Name |  Description |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type  
---|---|---|---|---  
PROTO |  Plot prototype file. Must contain the fields **X, Y, S1, S2** and **CODE** (numeric, explicit) and **XMIN, XMAX, YMIN, YMAX, XSCALE, YSCALE** (numeric, implicit). If these last 6 values set in **PROTO** , then corresponding parameters need not be set. |  Input |  Yes |  Plot Prototype  
  
## Output Files

Name |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
PLOT |  Output |  Yes |  Plot |  Output plot file.  
  
## Parameters

Name |  Description |  Required |  Default |  Range |  Values  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
XTYPE |  |  Option |  Description  
---|---  
1 |  linear  
2 |  log base 10  
3 |  log base e  
4 |  probability x scale Min/max limits must be defined in the appropriate transformed units (e.g. logs, or for probability, phi unit values in the range of say -4 to +4)  
Yes |  1 |  1,4 |  1,2,3,4  
YTYPE |  |  Option |  Description  
---|---  
1 |  linear  
2 |  log base 10  
3 |  log base e  
4 |  probability y scale. Min/max limits must be defined in the appropriate transformed units (e.g. logs, or for probability, phi unit values in the range of say -4 to +4)  
Yes |  1 |  1,4 |  1,2,3,4  
NDX |  Annotation decimal places on X axis. |  Yes |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
NDY |  Annotation decimal places on Y axis. |  Yes |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
IGRIDX |  |  Option |  Description  
---|---  
0 |  frame only  
1 |  frame + outwards ticks  
2 |  frame + inwards and outwards tick  
3 |  frame + inwards tick  
4 |  grid  
5-9 |  as 0-4 minus frame. Negative value will cause outer frame around full plot area.  
Yes |  0 |  0,10 |  Undefined  
IGRIDY |  |  Option |  Description  
---|---  
0 |  no numbering  
1 |  outwards ticks  
2 |  inwards and outwards ticks  
3 |  inwards ticks  
4 |  grid;  
Yes |  Undefined |  0,4 |  0,1,2,3,4  
NOXAXIS |  >0 suppresses plotting of X-axis (0). |  No |  0 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
NOYAXIS |  >0 suppresses plotting of Y-axis (0). |  No |  0 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
CHARSIZE |  Character size in millimetres (3). |  No |  3 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
ASPRATIO |  Aspect ratio, width / ht. for chars (0.9). |  No |  0.9 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
|  Colour [as 'pen' number] for plot (1). |  No |  1 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
APPEND |  Plot append flag. If set to 1 then the new plot will be appended to the **PLOT** file, if it exists and is a valid plot file (0). |  No |  0 |  0,1 |  0,1  
XMIN |  Minimum value of X for plot. None of **XMIN, XMAX, YMIN, YMAX, XSCALE, YSCALE** need be set if this information is already in the prototype. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
XMAX |  Maximum value of X for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YMIN |  Minimum value of Y for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YMAX |  Maximum value of Y for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
XSCALE |  X scale in user data units per millimetre. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YSCALE |  Y scale in user data units per millimetre. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
  
## Examples

### Example 1

The following will produce a frame plot with a log base 10 X axis from 0.1 to 1000.0 (4 cycles) and a probability Y axis from .001 to .999:
    
    
    !PLOTFT  &PROTO(PLOTPROT), &PLOT(FFRAME),@XTYPE=2,@YTYPE=4,   
  
---  
      
    
    @NDX=1,@NDY=0,@IGRIDX=4,@IGRIDY=4,@XMIN=-1,@XMAX=3, @YMIN=-3.5,@YMAX=3.5  
      
    
    XLABEL> LOG concentration - ppm  
      
    
    YLABEL> Cumulative frequency  
  
## Error and Warning Messages

Message |  Description  
---|---  
>>> CANNOT APPEND TO NON-EXISTENT OUTPUT FILE. >>> A NEW OUTPUT FILE WILL BE CREATED |  The @**APPEND** parameter has been set to 1, but the specified plot file does not exist. A new file will be created to contain the new plot being produced.  
>>> ERROR - CANNOT APPEND TO PLOT FILE AS IT DOES >>> NOT CONTAIN ALL THE REQUIRED FIELDS. >>> THE PLOT FILE WILL BE OVERWRITTEN. |  The @**APPEND** parameter has been set to 1, the specified plot file exists but is invalid. The existing plot file will be overwritten by the new plot being produced.  
>>> FATAL ERROR, BAD SCALE/RANGE COMBINATION(S) <<< >>> XMIN, XMAX = nnnnnnnnnn.nn nnnnnnnnn.nn >>> YMIN, YMAX = nnnnnnnnnn.nn nnnnnnnnn.nn >>> XSCALE, YSCALE = nnnnnnnnnn.nn nnnnnnnnn.nn |  Either insufficient scale information had been entered (at least two of **XMIN, XMAX, XSCALE** or Y equivalents must be entered either from the prototype of from parameters) or the combination given of **XMIN, XMAX** , and **XSCALE** (or their Y equivalents) was impossible. Often caused by entering a null plot prototype and no parameters. Fatal; the process is exited.