# SPLICO Process

To access this process:

  * View the **[Find Command](<../COMMON/findcommand.md>)** screen, select **SPLICO** and click **Run**.
  * Enter "SPLICO" into the [Command Line](<../COMMON/Command_Toolbar.md>) and press <ENTER>.

See this process in the [Command Table](<../command_help/COMMAND%20TABLE_S.md#SPLICO>).

## Process Overview

SPLICO produces contour plot and string files of irregularly scattered data points or of a triangulated wireframe or of a solid model.

A regular mesh is generated from the data by linear interpolation, when using wireframe data, or inverse power of distance interpolation, when using point or model data. Spline coefficients are generated for the mesh nodes which are then used to create smooth contour plot or string files.

Note: The parameter @**GRIDINC** defines the grid interval at which node values are calculated for contour threading. This parameter can control the quality of the contour plot. Therefore, it is important to set this parameter with respect to the spacing of the data points.

### Mathematical Algorithm

The contouring algorithm in SPLICO, as in most commonly available techniques, calculates iso-value lines from a regular grid of points which are interpolated from input data. The coefficients of a series of two-dimensional, third-degree polynomials which represents the continuous surface of minimum curvature passing through all grid points are computed. Contour line start points are calculated at regular spacings in the data area and using these, smooth contours are generated by interpolation between grid nodes using spline coefficients.

## Input Files

Name |  Description |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type  
---|---|---|---|---  
PROTO |  Plot prototype file. Must contain the fields **X, Y, S1, S2, CODE** (numeric, explicit) and **XMIN, XMAX, YMIN, YMAX, XSCALE, YSCALE** (numeric, implicit). If these last 6 values set in **PROTO** , then corresponding parameters need not be set. Optional only if APPEND=1 |  Input |  No |  Plot  
BOUND |  Optional bounding perimeter. No contours will produced outside this perimeter. Must contain fields **XP, YP, ZP, PTN** and **PVALUE**. This file must contain only one perimeter, must be clockwise and must not be closed. |  Input |  No |  String  
WIRETR |  Input wireframe triangle file. |  Input |  No |  Wireframe Triangle  
WIREPT |  Input wireframe or raw data point file. The raw data point file must be sorted on X field. |  Input |  No |  Points  
MODEL |  Input model file. Must contain fields **XC, YC, ZC, XINC, YINC, ZINC, XMORIG, YMORIG, ZMORIG, NX, NY, NZ, IJK + FIELD** field. |  Input |  No |  Block Model  
  
## Output Files

Name |  I/O Status |  Required |  Type |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
PLOT |  Output |  Yes |  Plot |  Output plot file.  
STRING |  Output |  No |  String |  Optional output string file. If selected this file be written out as well as the plot file and will contain fields **XP, YP, ZP, PTN** and **PVALUE**. The value of **PVALUE** field is determined from the **PVALST** and **PVALINC** parameters.  
  
## Fields

Name |  Description |  Source |  Required |  Type |  Default  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
X |  X field in input point file. Only required if contouring raw data. |  WIREPT |  No |  Numeric |  Undefined  
Y |  Y field in input point file. Only required if contouring raw data. |  WIREPT |  No |  Numeric |  Undefined  
FIELD |  Field to be contoured. Only required if contouring raw data or solid model. |  WIREPT, MODEL |  No |  Numeric |  Undefined  
SEAM |  Seam ID field. Only required if contouring solid model. |  MODEL |  No |  Any |  Undefined  
  
## Parameters

Name |  Description |  Required |  Default |  Range |  Values  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
CMIN |  Minimum contour value in user data units. |  Yes |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
CMAX |  Maximum contour value in user data units. |  Yes |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
CI |  Contour interval in user data units. |  Yes |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
GRIDINC |  Grid interval of mesh in user data units. This value is used to set up an internal mesh using input data. It is important to note that this mesh is used for contouring and not the original data. |  Yes |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
PLANE |  Plane, 'XY', 'XZ' or 'YZ' through the model. Default is the XY plane. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  'XY', 'XZ', 'YZ'  
POSITION |  Position of the plane. For example if the XY plane is used a Z position is needed. Only required if neither **TOP** nor **BOTTOM** are specified. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
TOP |  Value of **FIELD** for which top of seam contour required. Only required if neither **POSITION** nor **BOTTOM** appear. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
BOTTOM |  Value of **FIELD** for which base of seam contour required. Only required if neither **POSITION** nor **TOP** appear. Both **TOP** and **BOTTOM** set for an isopach. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
HILIGHT |  Highlight every Nth contour with **HI**. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
HI |  Colour [as 'pen' number] for highlighting. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
CHARSIZE |  Character size in millimetres (3.5). |  No |  3.5 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
|  Colour [as 'pen' number] for plot (1). |  No |  1 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
NDC |  Number of dec. places for annotation. Default value is for no annotation(-1). |  No |  -1 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
POWER |  Interpolation power. Used for solid model or raw data contouring (2). |  No |  2 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
RADIUS |  Interpolation search radius. Used for solid model or raw data contouring (0). |  No |  0 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
PVALST |  If **STRING** file requested, for the first string to be written **PVALUE** will be set to **PVALST**. For the following strings **PVALUE** is incremented by **PVALINC** (1.0). |  No |  1.0 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
PVALINC |  If STRING file requested, **PVALUE** value increment (1.0). |  No |  1.0 |  Undefined |  Undefined  
XMIN |  Minimum value of X for plot. None of **XMIN, XMAX, YMIN, YMAX, XSCALE, YSCALE** need be set if this information is already in the prototype. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
XMAX |  Maximum value of X for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YMIN |  Minimum value of Y for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YMAX |  Maximum value of Y for plot. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
XSCALE |  X scale in user data units per millimetre. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
YSCALE |  Y scale in user data units per millimetre. |  No |  Undefined |  Undefined |  Undefined  
APPEND |  Plot append flag. If set to 1 then the new plot will be appended to the PLOT file, if it exists and is a valid plot file (0). |  No |  0 |  0,1 |  0,1  
  
## Examples

### Example 1

Contouring raw data points.
    
    
    !SPLICO    &PLOT(PLOT1),&PROTO(PROTOP1),&WIREPT(POINTS),  
  
---  
      
    
    *X(X),*Y(Y),*FIELD(Z),  
      
    
    @CMIN=720,@CMAX=920,@CI=20,@GRIDINC=0.5,@POWER=2.0,@RADIUS=1.0  
  
### Example 2

Contouring triangulated wireframe.
    
    
    !SPLICO    &PLOT(PLOT2),&PROTO(PROTOP2),&WIREPT(WIREPT),  
  
---  
      
    
    &WIRETR(WIRETR),@CMIN=720,@CMAX=920,@CI=20,@GRIDINC=0.5  
  
### Example 3

Model contouring - Conventional contour of a numeric field.
    
    
    !SPLICO    &PLOT(PLOT3),&PROTO(PROTOP3),&MODEL(FEMODEL),  
  
---  
      
    
    *FIELD(FE),@CMIN=41,@CMAX=51,@CI=1,@GRIDINC=10,  
      
    
    @POSITION=-5,@POWER=2.0,@RADIUS=15  
  
### Example 4

Seam model contouring - Elevation of top of seam.
    
    
    !SPLICO    &PLOT(PLOT4),&PROTO(PROTOP4),&MODEL(COALMOD),  
  
---  
      
    
    *FIELD(ZONE),@CMIN=100,@CMAX=160,@CI=5,@GRIDINC=25,  
      
    
    @TOP=3,@POWER=2.0,@RADIUS=45  
  
### Example 5

Seam model contouring - Elevation of bottom of seam.
    
    
    !SPLICO    &PLOT(PLOT5),&PROTO(PROTOP5),&MODEL(COALMOD),  
  
---  
      
    
    *FIELD(ZONE),@CMIN=100,@CMAX=160,@CI=5,@GRIDINC=25,  
      
    
    @BOTTOM=1,@POWER=2.0,@RADIUS=45  
  
### Example 6

Seam model contouring - Isopach of seam.
    
    
    !SPLICO    &PLOT(PLOT6),&PROTO(PROTOP6),&MODEL(COALMOD),  
  
---  
      
    
    *FIELD(ZONE),@CMIN=0.2,@CMAX=1.6,@CI=0.2,  
      
    
    @GRIDINC=50,@TOP=4,@BOTTOM=4,@POWER=2.0,@RADIUS=45  
  
### Example 7

Seam model contouring - Contouring of a field (e.g. stripping ratio) related to a seam.
    
    
    !SPLICO    &PLOT(PLOT7),&PROTO(PROTOP7),&MODEL(COALMOD),  
  
---  
      
    
    *FIELD(WV/OV),*SEAM(ZONE),@CMIN=2,@CMAX=20,@CI=2,  
      
    
    @GRIDINC=25, @POSITION=1,@POWER=2.0,@RADIUS=45  
  
### Example 8

Lerchs-Grossmann pit model contouring - Elevation of pit benches (with string file output):
    
    
    !SPLICO    &PLOT(PLOT8),&PROTO(PROTOP8),&MODEL(LGMOD),  
  
---  
      
    
    &STRING(LGPER),*FIELD(PHASE),@CMIN=277.5,@CMAX=362.5,  
      
    
    @CI=10,@GRIDINC=20,@BOTTOM=1.0,@POWER=2.0,@RADIUS=40,  
      
    
    @PVALST=18,@PVALINC=-1  
  
## Error and Warning Messages

Message |  Description |  Solution  
---|---|---  
*** Error - Bad contour limit or interval. |  @CMIN or @CMAX or @CI is not set correctly. Fatal; the process is exited. |  Check the @CMIN, @CMAX and @CI parameter values against the range of *FIELD values.  
*** Error -Bad grid interval selection |  @GRIDINC parameter has not been set correctly. Using the values of *X minimum/maximum and *Y minimum/maximum and @GRIDINC, the process calculates the number grid lines in the X and Y directions required for contouring. The minimum number of grid lines permitted is 3 and the maximum is 200. If the number of the required grid lines exceeds these limits a fatal error is produced and the process is exited. |  Increase the @GRIDINC value or reduce the area of the plot.  
*** Error - Field aaaaaaaa missing from point file. |  The input point file &WIREPT is missing one or more essential field(s). Fatal; the process is exited. |  Check that the &WIREPT file exists and contains the correct fields.  
*** Error - Field aaaaaaaa missing from triangle file. |  The input triangle file &WIRETR is missing one or more essential field(s). Fatal; the process is exited. |  Check that the &WIRETR file exists and contains the correct fields.  
*** Error - Field aaaaaaaa missing from model file. |  The input model file &MODEL is missing one or more essential field(s). Fatal; the process is exited. |  Check that the &MODEL file exists and contains the correct fields.  
*** Error - Point file not sorted on X coordinate. |  The input wireframe or point file &WIREPT is not sorted on the field *X. Fatal; the process is exited. |  Sort the &WIREPT file on *X.  
*** Warning - No contour start locations computed. |  The search for contour start locations has failed for all contour values. |  Check the @CMIN, @CMAX and @CI parameter values against the range of *FIELD values.