# Import ESTIMA Parameters

Your application provides a range of options for estimating grades within a block model.

There are several processes available to perform the heavy lifting, and several more supporting them. Which process is used depends on the type of estimation you are performing:

  * [ESTIMA](<../Process_Help_XML/estima.md>)
  * [COKRIG](<../Process_Help_XML/cokrig.md>)
  * [GRADE](<../Process_Help_XML/grade.md>)
  * [QUICKEST](<../Process_Help_XML/quickest.md>)
  * [INDEST](<../Process_Help_XML/indest.md>)
  * [MIKEST](<../Process_Help_XML/mikest.md>)

You can use the parameters files of the [ESTIMA](<../Process_Help_XML/estima.md>) process within [COKRIG](<../Process_Help_XML/cokrig.md>). COKRIG is used during [advanced estimation](<Multivariate_Introduction.md>).

This topic describes key differences between the parameter files that are expected by the **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** processes, and the transformation that is applied if **ESTIMA** parameters are imported into the Advanced Estimation function.

As the parameter file format between these processes is slightly different, it is necessary for the **Advanced Estimation** tool to map settings between imported **COKRIG** parameters and those expected by the **COKRIG** process. Some parameters supported by **ESTIMA** are either not supported in **COKRIG** , or may be only partly supported. Some are identical in both processes, which means no transformation is required. 

**Note** : You can import any combination of estimation parameter files using the Parameters panel. For example, if required, you can just import a variogram model file. 

If you are attempting to recreate a prior **ESTIMA** /**ESTIMATE** estimation in **COKRIG** , you need to be aware of the differences in parameter files as, during import to Advanced Estimation, some assumptions have to be made regarding the type of estimation you are performing.

For example, macro kriging is available in **ESTIMA** but is not available in **COKRIG** , and some parameters associated with kriging (**KRIGNEGW** , **KRIGVARS**) aren't available in **COKRIG** either. Conversely, in **COKRIG** , search volume anisotropy is always specified, but can be disabled in **ESTIMA**. In addition, If Dynamic Anisotropy is used in **COKRIG** , it needs to be for the same angle field names for all variograms or search. 

Because of the differences between supported parameters and parameter file specification between the two processes, the Advanced Estimation tool will review parameters files generated by **ESTIMA** during import and either automatically map between the two processes, or provide feedback to indicate where parameter file information is incompatible and has been ignored.  

## Importing ESTIMA Parameter Files

The **Parameters** panel, part of the [Advanced Estimation](<Multivariate_Introduction.md>) tool, is used to import or export parameters to and from the multivariate estimation routines. 

In Import mode (selectable at the top of the panel), you can either import **COKRIG** -format parameter files (estimation, field, variogram, search and custom zones) or **ESTIMA** -format files (estimation, variogram, search). 

Field and custom zones parameter files are not used in **ESTIMA** , so these options are unavailable if you choose to Use ESTIMA format file(s). **ESTIMA** does not support co-estimation or soft boundaries. As such, the estimation, variogram and search parameter files from **ESTIMA** represent the full 'set'.

In summary, the process by which you can import **ESTIMA** parameter files into **Advanced Estimation** is:

  1. Set up your scenario in the Advanced Estimation tool. See [Advanced Estimation & Variography](<Multivariate_Introduction.md>)

  2. Select your samples and attributes. See [Select Samples](<Multivariate_Select_Samples.md>).

  3. Select your prototype model. See [Select Prototype](<Multivariate_Select_Prototype.md>)

  4. On the [Parameters](<Multivariate_Import_Parameters.md>) panel, select **Import**.

  5. Select **Use ESTIMA format file(s)**.

  6. Select the Estimation Parameters, Variogram model andSearch parameters files (or any combination of these files, or a single file.

  7. Click Import and review the messages in the Output control bar. This information describes the transformations that may have been applied as part of the import process.

  8. Continue setting up your model prototype using the Advanced Estimation tool. 

Following import, the appropriate panels in the **Advanced Estimation** tool are populated according to the values found in the external files.

**Note** : Previously imported parameter files in the **Advanced Estimation** routine are not overwritten or deleted by subsequent import operations. For example, importing 2 sets of variogram parameters won't cause previously imported data to be lost. 

For a more detailed description of the way imported parameters are transformed to a **COKRIG** -friendly format, see "Parameter File Mapping Logic", below.  

## Parameter Mapping Logic

Generally, the following rules apply when importing **ESTIMA** parameter files into the **Advanced Estimation** tool running **COKRIG** :

#####  ESTIMA Command Line Parameters

In **ESTIMA** , some of the parameters are passed into the command line, for example, the number of discretization points and parent cell estimate. So, when importing these from **ESTIMA** , assumptions are made that the number of points is 3 x 3 x 3 (**DISCX** , **DISCY** , **DISCZ**) and parent cell estimation (**PARENT** =1) is always used. These parameters can be changed in the Define Estimation screenafter import. 

##### IMETHODS

Not all estimation methods used in **ESTIMA** are supported by **COKRIG**. i.e. The estimation methods **IMETHOD** =5 = Sichel's t estimator, 6 = Ordinary macro kriging, 7 = Simple macro kriging or 9 = Correlation factor method are not supported. 

If the **IMETHOD** s 101 or 102 are used, then equivalent parameters are added to the **COKRIG** fields file. 

All other estimation methods are supported. 

##### Parameters not supported in COKRIG

Cokrig has no equivalent for:

  * resetting Kriging negative weights to 0 (**KRIGNEGW**)

  * resetting the sill to the variance (**KRIGVARS**)

### Differences in Dynamic Anisotropy

Dynamic Anisotropy is handled different in **COKRIG** to **ESTIMA**. In **COKRIG** , the fields are passed into the command line, so the anisotropy fields need to be the same for all estimates. In **ESTIMA** , these fields were in the variogram and/or search parameter file, so these could be different for each estimate. If you were using different anisotropy fields for each run in **ESTIMA** , you might need to run consecutive COKRIG estimates to achieve the same result. 

### OCTANTS versus SECTORS; and MAXKEY

If **OCTANTS** were used in **ESTIMA** , you should check the parameter setup in **COKRIG** very carefully as there is not a 1:1 mapping. If the system is unable to determine a corresponding setup for **COKRIG** , the parameters are ignored which will result in differences in your estimate. 

As **ESTIMA** 's **OCTANTS** breaks the space into 8 parts, the following **COKRIG** parameters best describe 8 parts : **NSECTOR** =4 and **SPLITSEC** =1

MINOCT can be approximately converted to **MAXEMPSC** i.e. **MAXEMPSC** = 8 **MINOCT** (total number of octants number of octants that require values). See [Define Search Volumes](<Multivariate_Select_Search_Volumes.md>).

We can only convert to **OCTANTS** if **MINPEROC** =1 and **MAXPEROCT** =4. Any other combination cannot be directly converted. 

**MAXKEY** in **ESTIMA** refers to the total space, where as in **COKRIG** it refers to **MAXKEY** per Sector. If no **SECTORS** are used it is converted directly. If it is used in conjunction with **OCTANTS** , then it is multiplied by 8. 

### Variogram Structures

**ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** have equivalent structures for 1 (Spherical), 3 (Exponential) or 4 (Gaussian). Structures 2 (Power) or 5 (De Wijsian) are not supported in **COKRIG** , so these are not imported. 

The following tables describe, for each of the three **ESTIMA** parameter files that can be imported, what will happen to the values of each attribute when imported into the Advanced Estimation Module.

A tick in the **ESTIMA** column indicates the presence of the attribute in parameter files used by ESTIMA. A red cross indicates the attribute exists in **COKRIG** , but not **ESTIMA**. Similarly, the **COKRIG** column indicates if an attribute exists (and is required by) in **COKRIG** parameter files.

The following acronyms are used throughout this table:

  * **EPAR** : Estimation parameter file

  * **VPAR** : Variogram parameter file

  * **FPAR** ; Fields parameter file

  * **NN** : Nearest Neighbour

  * **ID** : Inverse Power of Distance

  * **OK** : Ordinary Kriging

  * **AE** : Advanced Estimation

### Estimation Parameters

Field Name |  Type |  ESTIMA |  COKRIG |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
EDESC |  A | YES | NO |  If detected, an equivalent attribute is created in the **COKRIG** estimation parameter file. This field is not used, but it can be in the parameter file for your convenience.   
EREFNUM |  N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files. A check is made to ensure this number is unique within this file.  
VSETNUM | N | NO | YES |  During import, the value stored in the imported **VREFNUM** column is used to populate the **VSETNUM** column. A warning is issued if this record does not have a matching reference in the **VPAR** file: VSETNUM does not have a matching value in variogram model file  
VREFNUM | N | YES | NO |  This field will not be imported, but its values are used to populate **VREFNUM**  
SREFNUM | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files. A warning is issued if this field does not have a matching reference in **SPAR** file: SREFNUM does not have a matching value in search parameter file  
IMETHOD | N | YES | YES |  Import directly for estimation method: 1=NN, 2=ID, 3=OK For 4=SK

  * If **LOCLMNP** =1 then set to 11 (i.e. SK with local mean) and set **LOC_MEAN** in **FPAR** to the value of **LOCALM_F**
  * if _LOCLMNP_ =2 then set to 4 (i.e. SK). **LOC_MEAN** is not set in **FPAR**.
  * Values of 101 and 102 Ensure that **FPAR** is populated with **COVZZSTR** , **SLPZZSTR** and **KRIGEFF** (For 101) and **LAGRANGE** (for 102) for any values with the same input grade field (**VALUE_IN**) and **IMETHOD** =3. Do not import the record, but adjust any other records with this **VALUE_IN**.

For **IMETHOD** =5,6,7 and 9 a warning is issued: Selected Estimation (IMETHOD=X; Method name) method not supported in Cokrig.. Records with these values are ignored. For reference, in **ESTIMA** : 5 = Sichel's t estimator. 6 = Ordinary macro kriging. 7 = Simple macro kriging. 9 = Correlation factor method.  
POWER | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between ESTIMA and COKRIG parameter files. If **IMETHOD**!=2, a warning is issued: Power will not be used as ID not selected as estimation method  
ADDCON | N | YES | NO |  Functionality does not exist in **COKRIG**. Warning issued and data is ignored.  
KRIGNEGW | N | YES | NO |  If missing or value = 0 (default), data is ignored. If value = 1, a warning is issued: An equivalent to KRIGNEGW does not exist in COKRIG. Parameter ignored.  
KRIGVARS | N | YES | NO |  If value is missing or =1 (default), data is ignored. If value = 0, a warning is issued: An equivalent to KRIGVARS does not exist in COKRIG. Parameter ignored.  
ANISO | N | YES | NO |  IF 0, a warning is issued: Search volume anisotropy always in Cokrig, ANISO 0 not supported; parameter ignored.. If 1, and fields do not exist, then the search ellipsoid used. No warning is issued. **SDYNAISO** =0 and **VDYNAISO** =0 If 1 and angle fields exist, then DA fields are set on the **Select Prototype** screen. If fields (**SANGL1_F, SANGL2_F and SANGL3_F**) exist in **SPAR** file, then **SDYNAISO** =1. If fields (**VANGL1_F, VANGL2_F and VANGL3_F**) exist in **EPAR** and **VDYNAISO** =1. If 2, a warning is issued: Search volume anisotropy always in COKRIG, so ANISO 2 not supported; parameter set to 1. Set to 1. If Dynamic Anisotropy is used in COKRIG, it must be for the same angle field names for all variograms or search.  
ANANGLEi | N | YES | NO |  i=1,2,3 Functionality does not exist in **COKRIG**. If ANISO=2 then a warning is issued: ANANGLE1, does not exist in COKRIG, parameter ignored  
ANDISTi | N | YES | NO |  i=1,2,3 Functionality does not exist in **COKRIG**. If _ANISO_ =2 then a warning is issued: "ANDIST, does not exist in COKRIG, parameter ignored  
SDYNAISO | N | YES | YES |  See **ANISO**. This is set to 1 if the fields (**SANGL1_F, SANGL2_F and SANGL3_F** ) exist in **SPAR** , otherwise this is set to 0.  
VDYNAISO | N | YES | YES |  Set to 1 based on presence of fields (**VANGL1_F, VANGL2_F and VANGL3_F**) in **EPAR** , otherwise set to 0.  
DISCX | N | YES | YES |  Set to 3 in **COKRIG** A warning is issued: Unable to import discretization settings for Estima. Discretization in X set to 3  
DISXY | N | YES | YES |  Set to 3 in **COKRIG** A warning is issued Unable to import discretization settings for Estima. Discretization in Y set to 3  
DISCZ | N | YES | YES |  Set to 3 in **COKRIG** A warning is issued: Unable to import discretization settings for Estima. Discretization in Z set to 3  
USEPK | N |  NO | YES |  Set to 0 A warning is issued: if (IMETHOD=3,4 or 11) Unable to set USEPK. Only set if discretization is 1x1x1  
PARENT | N | YES | YES |  Set to 1 A warning is issued: Unable to import parent cell estimation settings for Estima. Parent cell estimation set to 1  
VALUE_IN | A | YES | YES |  Check grade exists in AE and sample file, and if it doesnt then it is added Set value to **IN_VAR** in **Fields**.  
VALUE_OU | A | YES | YES |  Set value to **EST** in Fields.  
NUMSAM_F | A | YES | YES |  Set value to **NUMSAMP** in **Fields**.  
SVOL_F | A | YES | YES |  Set value to **SINDEX** in **Fields**.  
VAR_F | A | YES | YES |  Set value to **VAR** in **Fields**.  
MINDIS_F | A | YES | YES |  If set, A warning is issued: MINDIS_F is not supported by Cokrig; parameter ignored  
LOCALMNP | N | YES |  NO |  See **IMETHOD**.  
LOCALM_F | A | YES | YES |  See **IMETHOD**. Set value to **LOCALM_F** in Fields.  
VANGLi_F | A | YES |  NO |  See **ANISO**.  
  
### Fields Parameter File

Field Name |  Type |  ESTIMA |  COKRIG |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
EREFNUM | N | YES | YES |  From **EPAR**  
IN_VAR | A | YES | YES |  From **EPAR** \- **VALUE_IN**  
LOC_MEAN | A | YES | YES |  From **EPAR** \- **LOCALM_F**  
EST | A | YES | YES |  From **EPAR** \- **VALUE_OUT**  
VAR | A | YES | YES |  From **EPAR** \- **VAR_F**  
NUMSAMP | A | YES | YES |  From **EPAR** \- **NUMSAM_F**  
WTOFMEAN | A |  NO | YES |  Not imported  
SUMPOSWT | A |  NO | YES |  Not imported  
CORZZSTR | A |  NO | YES |  Not imported  
COVZZSTR | A |  NO | YES |  From **EPAR** , Updated records with same grade field that also have **IMETHOD** =101  
COVZ1SZS | A |  NO | YES |  Not imported  
SLPZZSTR | A |  NO | YES |  From **EPAR** , Updated records with same grade field that also have **IMETHOD** =101  
VARZSTR | A |  NO | YES |  Not imported  
KRIGEFF | A |  NO | YES |  From **EPAR** , Updated records with same grade field that also have **IMETHOD** =101  
LAGRANGE | A |  NO | YES |  From **EPAR** , Updated records with same grade field that also have **IMETHOD** =102  
SINDEX | A | YES | YES |  From **EPAR** \- **SVOL_F**  
  
### Search Parameter File

Field Name |  Type |  ESTIMA |  COKRIG |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
SDESC | A | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
SREFNUM | N | YES | YES |  A check is made to ensure this value exists in **EPAR** , otherwise a warning is issued.  
SMETHOD | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files. (values 1 or 2)  
SDIST1/2/3 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of these attributes are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
SANGLE1/2/3 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of these attributes are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
SAXIS1/2/3 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of these attributes are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files. (Values 1, 2 or 3)  
OCTMETH | N | YES | YES |  If set to 0, set **NSECTORS** to 0; If set to 1, set **NSECTORS** =4 and **SPLITSEC** =1. This creates an equivalent of 8 octants. A warning is issued: Octants (Used by ESTIMA) do not directly translate to sectors (Used by COKRIG). Using 4 sectors, split horizontally).   
MINOCT | N | YES | YES |  If **OCTMETH** =1 Use this value to set **MAXEMPSC**. **MAXEMPSC** = 8 **MINOCT** (i.e. total number of octants number of octants that require values) A warning is issued Minimum Octants does not directly convert to number of empty sectors in COKRIG. Setting MAXEMPSC to X.  
MINPEROC | N | YES | YES |  **OCTMETH** =0 Ignore, If **OCTMETH** =1 and **MINPEROC** =1 and **MAXPEROC** =4 A warning is issued: Equivalent minimum and maximum samples per octant have been determined. Otherwise, if **OCTMETH** =1 and (**MINPEROC** is not 1 and **MAXPEROC** is not 4) A warning is issued: _No equivalent minimum and maximum samples per octant have been determined for Cokrig. MINPEROCT and MAXPEROC Parameter ignored. This will result in differences in your estimate between Estima and Cokrig._  
MAXPEROC | N | YES | YES |  See **MINPEROCT**  
MINNUM1 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
MAXNUM1 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
SVOLFAC2 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
MINNUM2 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
MAXNUM2 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
SVOLFAC3 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
MINNUM3 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
MAXNUM3 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
SVOLFACi | N |  NO | YES |  Not required  
MINNUMi | N |  NO | YES |  Not required  
MAXNUMi | N |  NO | YES |  Not required  
MAXKEY | N | YES | YES |  If absent, set to 0 IF **OCTMETH** =0, this us copied directly. IF **OCTMETH** =1 then **MAXKEY** is calculated as _Estima value*8_  
OPTKEY | N |  NO | YES |  If absent, set to 0 No equivalent exists in **ESTIMA**.  
NSECTORS | N | YES | YES |  See **OCTMETH**. Set to 0; If **OCTMETH** =1, set to 4  
SPLITSEC | N | YES | YES |  See **OCTMETH**. Set to 0; If **OCTMETH** =1, set to 1  
MAXEMPSC | N | YES | YES |  See **MINOCT** **MAXEMPSC** = 8 **MINOCT**  
MVSEARCH | N |  NO | YES |  Set to 0 (multi-variate estimation not supported by **ESTIMA**)  
KALLIBLK | N |  NO | YES |  Set to 0  
CAPPING | N |  NO | YES |  Set to 0  
CAPDIST | N |  NO | YES |  Set to absent  
CAPGRADE | N |  NO | YES |  Set to absent  
SANGL1_F | A | YES | YES |  Only a single combination of **SANGL1_F** , **SANGL2_F** and **SANGL3_F** is suppported.  
If a second combination occurs, a warning is issued: Multiple combinations of **SANGL1_F** , **SANGL2_F** and **SANGL3_F** cannot be run in **COKRIG**. Parameter ignored.  
SANGL2_F | A | YES | YES |  See **SANGL1_F**  
SANGL3_F | A | YES | YES |  See **SANGL1_F**  
  
### Variogram Model Parameter File

Field Name |  Type |  ESTIMA |  COKRIG |  Description  
---|---|---|---|---  
VDESC | A | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
GRADE | A | NO | YES |  From **EPAR** \- **VALUE_IN**  
GRADE2 | A | NO | YES |  From **EPAR** \- **VALUE_IN** (Same as **GRADE**)  
VSETNUM | N | NO | YES |  Copy from **VREFNUM** (Check this exists in **EPAR**)  
VREFNUM | N | YES | YES |  Same as **VREFNUM**  
GOODFITP | N | NO | YES |  Not required  
FITCONV | N | NO | YES |  Not required  
VANGLE1/2/3 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of these attributes are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
VAXIS1/2/3 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of these attributes are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
NUGGET | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
STi | N | YES | YES |  The contents of this attribute are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files if value is 1, 3 or 4. If 2 or 5 a warning is issued: _Structure type {2=Power / 5-De Wijsian} not supported in Corkig. Variogram model will not be imported. Skip record._  
STiPAR1/2/3/4 | N | YES | YES |  The contents of these attributes are matched exactly between **ESTIMA** and **COKRIG** parameter files.  
  
Related Topics and Activities

  * [Advanced Estimation Introduction](<Multivariate_Introduction.md>)
  * [Standard vs. Advanced Estimation](<Advanced%20Estimation%20Validation.md>)
  * [Advanced Estimation Dialogs](<Multivariate_Dialogs_Overview.md>)
  * [COKRIG (Process documentation)](<../Process_Help_XML/cokrig.md>)
  * [ESTIMA (Process documentation)](<../Process_Help_XML/estima.md>)