# Unfold Wizard: Files and Settings

To access this screen:

  * Display the **[Unfold Wizard](<UnfoldWizard.md>)** and click **Files and Settings**.

Specify how the files that are created in the Unfold Wizard are restored, saved and deleted. 

This can be done automatically, or manually using the buttons provided. Saving the files and settings enables them to be loaded when the wizard is next run. The files created by the wizard are also shown to help you gauge your progress through the wizard.

On this screen, you define:

  * File and parameter management **Settings**.

  * The **Phases** of the wizard, and their order.

  * Which **Unfolding files** are produced by the wizard, and which ones already exist (and will be overwritten).

Option | Description  
---|---  
Settings  
  
  * Automatic >> Restore on load

| If checked, the latest files created by the wizard are loaded automatically when it is launched. The settings specified in each tab are also restored.  
  
  * Automatic >> Save continuously

| If selected, the settings specified in each tab are automatically saved, and are restored the next time the wizard is run.  
**Manual** |   
  
  * Restore

| Reinstate the previously used wizard settings.  
  
  * Save

| Store the current settings ready for later reinstatement.  
Automatic file delete | 

  * If **checked** , you will need to confirm file deletions triggered by the **Unfold** wizard. 
  * If **unchecked** , these deletions occur without confirmation.

  
Unfolding Files |  A table of file generated by the **Unfold** wizard, organized by the wizard **Phase** (screen). For each **Phase** , one or more File references appear with the actual file name to be generated. If the file already exists in the project folder, **Exist** is automatically checked. This lets you see which data (if any) is overwritten when the wizard completes. A **Description** helps to identify the type and purpose of each file. Note: File output is also dependent on the **Unfold Mode** selected ([Unfold](<Unfold_UnfoldTab.md>) screen). Tip: The files produced by the Unfold wizard are displayed in the **Project Files** and **Project Data** control bars, and can be loaded and viewed independently of the wizard.  
  
Related topics and activities:

  * [Unfold Wizard: Define Sections](<Unfold_DefSections.md>)

  * [Create Unfolding Strings](<Unfold_HWFW.md>)

  * [Unfold Wizard: Unfold](<Unfold_UnfoldTab.md>)

  * [Unfold Wizard: Validate](<Unfold_Validate.md>)

  * [UNFOLD Parameters](<Unfold-parameters.md>)