# wireframe-create-from-points ("cwp")

See this command in the [**command table**.](<COMMAND%20TABLE_W.md#wireframe-create-from-points>)

To access this command:

  * Activate the **Explicit** ribbon and select **Create >> From Points**.

  * Enter "wireframe-create-from-points" into the **[Command Line](<../COMMON/Command_Toolbar.md>)**.

  * Use the quick-key combination "cwp".

## Command Overview

This command displays the [Point Reconstruction Console](<../COMMON/point-reconstruction-console.md>). 

Your application supports several surface reconstruction methods. Some require point data to include normal directions and some, which perform a Delauney triangulation, don't. In Studio products, the former use a Gaussian surface calculation to solve a 3D Laplacian system and interpolate the surface between known data points to represent obvious geometrical trends. In the latter, tesselation is performed, linking points with edges to form surface triangles. 

Your ultimate choice of surfacing method depends on the nature of your input data, which can vary significantly from one capture device, environment or project to the next.

Some surfacing options can be accessed using the **[PTCLD2WF](<../Process_Help_XML/ptcld2wf.md>)** process. One further method - the **Balanced** method - is available (along with all other methods) via the [Point Reconstruction Console](<../COMMON/point-reconstruction-console.md>). 

If you are familiar with Datamine processes, or just prefer to use them, the **PTCLD2WF** process provides all surfacing methods other than **Balanced** , which can only be access via the **Point Reconstruction Console**. The interactive console lets you access all surfacing options in Studio, provides scenario management, auto loading of data and other features. Generally, the interactive console is recommended for reconstructing surface data.

Which method is suitable for your data depends on a range of criteria, including:

  * Point data pattern regularity. 

  * Point data density and the extent of declustering required.

  * Extent of data 'noise', that is, errant points generated by data collection or preprocessing.

  * The general shape implied by a point cloud (e.g. a primitive-like cavity shape, such as a stope may require a different surfacing method to a grid of development drives, cubbies and so on.

  * Absolute point-to-surface adjacency requirements.

  * Processing time requirements.

**Note** : If duplicate points are detected in the input points file, only one of the points is added to the point cloud object.

See [Point Cloud Reconstruction](<../COMMON/point-reconstruction.md>).

Related topics and activities

  * [Point Cloud Reconstruction](<../COMMON/point-reconstruction.md>)

  * [Point Reconstruction Console](<../COMMON/point-reconstruction-console.md>)

  * [Point Reconstruction Methods and Tips](<../COMMON/point-reconstruction-methods.md>)