# Desurvey Settings  
  
To access this screen:

  * Display the [Hole Properties](<../COMMON/hole%20properties.md>) screen and select the **Desurvey Settings** tab.

Choose the method used to desurvey dynamic drillhole data for display purposes.

Dynamic drillhole representations are best for display purposes; the collar is correctly located and the samples meet.

Static (desurveyed) drillhole representations produce desurveyed samples which honour the centre point of each sample but will have gaps when the hole is curved. These should be used for grade interpretations. 

See [Drillhole Representation](<../COMMON/Drillhole%20Representation%20in%20Studio.md>) for more information.

Activity steps:

  1. Choose the Desurvey Method:

     * _Straight Line Segments_ Traces are linear or near linear.

     * _Radius of Curvature_ Traces exhibit significant downhole deviations in azimuth or inclination (recommended).

  2. Choose from any of these Desurvey Options:

     * _Include direction from collars table as well as from surveys table_ Use this when the collars table contains collar survey data (it has azimuth and inclination values at a depth of 0) which are either not included in the surveys table, or when there is no downhole survey table available.

     * _Subdivide samples to smooth trace_ This is useful when the drillhole is curved and current sample lengths give sharp angles between samples. This option helps to provide a drillhole display with less erratic segments.

     * _Trace to honor sample centers as generated by the DESURV or HOLES3D process_ \- Drillhole is curved but display of the drillhole strings is required to mimic those produced by **[DESURV](<../Process_Help_XML/desurv.md>)** or **[HOLES3D](<../Process_Help_XML/holes3d.md>)**.

  3. Click **OK**.

  4. Save your project.

Related topics and activities:

  * [Drillhole Representation](<../COMMON/Drillhole%20Representation%20in%20Studio.md>)

  * [Defining and building drillholes](<../COMMON/LoadingDynamicDrillholeData.md>)